Build the future.
-----------------
Many businesses are beginning to get comfortable with the idea that their data
lives on servers located all over the world instead of in a back office closet.
This trend will continue as more of today's young workers grow into managers.
Also, what will the World be like when people have a device with them at all
times that is always connected? In developing countries many people skipped
traditional computers altogether and joined the Internet on their mobile
devices. How is this going to play out?

We need to look at the opportunities that these trends will represent. Mark
Zuckerberg commented that if he didn't build Facebook "somebody else would
have." He obviously had a clear understanding that there was a trend line which
predicted the success of Facebook. However, while plenty of people predicted
it, he is the only one who actually built it.

One of the biggest differentators of wildly successful firms is not so much
that they predict the future, but that they define it. It may seem that Mark
Zuckerberg is being humble by quipping that somebody else would have built
Facebook if he didn't. But the fact of the matter remains that he did build it.
By his own admission everyone saw the trend, but Mark will be a billionaire
because he *built* the future that everyone else *predicted*.

What do you get by predicting the future? You get to say "I was right", along
with millions of other people.  The goal of our firm is not necessarily to be
"right" about our predictions, but to build a firm that will *make* our
predictions right.

Find a niche that does not yet exist.
-------------------------------------
One of the worst things we could do is attempt to be the best player within
some existing technology market. That instict is part of our consumer
mentality, not an entrepreneurial mentality.  If we based our business on
building a better word processing system, we would have to fight for our lives
just to squeeze out a meager living.  The entrepreneurial attitude is to invent
a new market where we are the *only* player (at least for a little while).

To create a new market we need to keep the whole market ecosystem in mind.
Buyers have plenty of choices in front of them and they will always make the
one that not suites their needs, but also appeals to them the most on
an emotional level.

For example, small business customers will evaluate us against an actual
physical filing cabinet, email, Excel, Google Apps, and even a pen and paper.
These things all have different forms and functionality, but they all serve the
same purpose.  They allow a small business manager to organize information in a
way that is good enough to effectively manage their business. We need to look
for untapped value in the spaces between existing functionality and purpose.

Exploring outside existing functionality and purpose means understanding what
the market is trying to achieve in the broadest terms.  For example, small
businesses are not looking for an "enterprise resource management system", they
are simply trying to get more done in less time without having to worry about
the day to day details of the business.  If we help a segment of the population
meet their objectives in a way that is obviously superior to their current mode
of operation, we have found a niche market that does not exist.

Go where others will not go.
----------------------------
We also need to be wise enough not to target the markets of the big players in
our industry. This is not to say that we will not compete against them, but we
need to carefully choose were and how we will be competing against them.  The
armies of Napoleon Bonaparte and George Washington were able to defeat larger
and better equipped forces because they chose the battles to fight, and they
defined how they would be fought.

Where are the big companies, like Microsoft, Google, and Apple uncomfortable?
What are some places they simply will not go? We need to understand how they
have carved up the market to find the opportunities they have presented us with.

When the British forces marched on Concord, Massachussets in 1775, the American
colonists knew that they would never beat them while they were in formation, so
they ambushed them from the woods instead.  We can do the same thing as these
underdogs did, not to destroy the big players in our industry (more about that
later), but to choose the battles we want to fight and define the terms on
which they will be fought.

For instance, firms like IBM and Oracle serve large, stodgy, organizations.
Their strategy is to use expensive sales teams to work closely with their
clients over long periods of time, usually in order to win a long term contract
from them. They integrate complete "solutions", usually by piecing together
technologies that they have control over, rather than the technologies that may
actually be the best fit for their clients.

So there is an opportunity there to sell integrated systems to customers that
cannot afford large contracts, or do not want to be bound to one providor for
long periods of time. This has resulted in the growth of software as a service
in small businesses.

For another example of going outside of the comfort zone of a big market player
we'll use Facebook as a case study. Despite all the recent problems in 2010,
Facebook still has social networking locked up. Fighting the battle for a new
social networking platform on their turf is a sure bet for disaster. So where
is Facebook uncomfortable? Where does their model of the World break down?
Possibly in distributed social networks?

The point here is not that there is no room for better enterprise software and
social network platforms, but that copying the market view of IBM or Facebook
is a fool's errand. We need to always have a contrarian model of the world when
compared to the large market makers.

And, the only way to have a contrarian model of the World, is to understand the
models we are running contrary to. Fighting in the woods is contrary to
fighting pitched battles out in the open.

---

Aug 30th, 2010
According to IT research firm AMI's latest worldwide SMB Cloud Services
Practice, there are roughly 750,000 (12 percent) small businesses and 20,000
(24 percent) medium-size businesses already using software as a service (SAAS).
In addition, the survey found by looking at today's SAAS users, 78 percent of
small businesses and 31 percent of midsize businesses are leveraging a SAAS
plus on-premises mix (or hybrid model), while approximately only a third of
SAAS users are using an actual pure-SAAS product.

With an anticipated growth of up to $95 billion in global SMB cloud-related
spending by 2014, the firm said it isn't a surprise to see over half of U.S.
SMBs looking into SAAS as a potential solution. Approximately one in five U.S.
SMBs plan to use SAAS. However, AMI said it believes that SMBs are easing into
the concept of local plus cloud-based computing rather than leapfrogging into a
pure-play platform.

AMI's research concluded that certain applications would accelerate the need
for on demand/cloud among SMBs from SAAS plus on-premises vendors, including
e-mail and messaging applications, online storage and backup, and document
management and collaboration solutions. Approximately 134,000 non-SAAS U.S. SMB
users plan to adopt this application, according to the company's report, which
is good news for companies like Microsoft, which not only provides hosted
solutions like Exchange Online in its BPOS bundle, but also its ubiquitous
"Exchange On Premises."

http://www.eweek.com/c/a/Midmarket/SaaS-Increasingly-Popular-Among-Small-Businesses-Survey-Finds-498415/

---
