A startup is a search for a scalable, repeatable business model.
================================================================
The biggest advantage we have as a small start up is our agility. We need to
completely leverage that agility the best that we can.  To do that we use
dynamic business modeling that is able to change quickly as we learn more about
our market and how to build products for it.  Our business model is not about
being right the first time, but getting to the right model as quickly and
cheaply as possible.

In fact, there are [whole books][2] written about being wrong the first time.
The theory is that our first idea will never work, and our second idea probably
will not either. The important thing is to keep moving to the next idea;
triangulating in on something that does work. Changing from one idea to the next
is often called a pivot and the purpose of a startup is to search and pivot.

There is a whole methodology for doing this that has become known as the [lean
startup][3]. As with most new business methodologies there is a lot of hype;
but there is also [a lot of truth][4] to the lean startup idea too.

The whole point of a lean start up is to triangulate in on an idea that will
work; one that will be scalable to huge volumes; and [do it as quickly as
possible without burning through cash.][6] We are not building a company
because we know what to do. We are building a company because [we know how to
figure out what to do][5].

The process of discovery has a methodology attached to it with military roots.
It is called the [OODA loop (for observe, orient, decide, act)][7].  The main
contributing factor to the success of an OODA loop is speed.  Boyd, the author
of OODA sums up the purpose of our business model.

>"In order to win, we should operate at a faster tempo or rhythm than our adversaries--or, better yet, get inside [the] adversary's Observation-Orientation-Decision-Action time cycle or loop. ... Such activity will make us appear ambiguous (unpredictable) thereby generate confusion and disorder among our adversaries--since our adversaries will be unable to generate mental images or pictures that agree with the menacing as well as faster transient rhythm or patterns they are competing against."

Granted, OODA is influenced by the military, so terms like "win" and
"adversaries" are used. Nonetheless, Boyd's emphasis on speed is taken to heart
at The Fireworks Project.

The primary tool we use to orient ourselves is our dynamic business model. The
act of reorienting ourselves is called a [pivot][8].  Our goal is to cycle
through the OODA loop and find pivot points as quickly and cheaply as possible.
We need to eliminate anything that slows us down from reaching our next pivot.

Don't plan; model.
------------------
As far as we are concerned there is a distinct difference between a business
plan and a business model. A business plan is just that: a plan to make money.
Rather than planning, a business model creates a general understanding which is
more dynamic and more useful to us as members of The Fireworks Project.

A business plan contains too much detail and makes too many assumptions.  [No
plan survives first contact with customers.][1] In that blog post Steve Blank
has a great quote which sums up the problem with business planning: "Unless you
have tested the assumptions in your business model first, outside the building,
your business plan is just creative writing.‚Äù

So, we will not waste our time on creating a business plan. Instead we will
focus on constantly adjusting our business model.

To be really useful our business model needs to present our grand view in
simple terms, but still allow us to dive into the details when we need to. Our
business modeling tools will include graphical pictures and charts, but also a
lot of text. It is designed to be a place where you can go to learn how the
business works, and why we do what we do. You can explore on the surface to get
an overview, or dive in deeper to learn about the details.

As time goes on, we should see the delivery mechanism for our business model improve.
Right now it is a primitive hodge podge of HTML, SVG documents, and images. If we
improve our modeling tools, we can increase the speed at which we triangulate
a hugely successful business model.

  [1]: http://steveblank.com/2010/04/08/no-plan-survives-first-contact-with-customers-%E2%80%93-business-plans-versus-business-models/
  [2]: http://www.amazon.com/Getting-Plan-Breaking-Through-Business/dp/1422126692
  [3]: http://adam.heroku.com/past/2010/4/30/startup_lessons_learned/
  [4]: http://giffconstable.com/2010/05/lean-startup-marketing-bullshit/
  [5]: http://www.startuplessonslearned.com/2009/04/built-to-learn.html
  [6]: http://www.startuplessonslearned.com/2009/03/cash-is-not-king.html
  [7]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OODA_Loop
  [8]: http://www.startuplessonslearned.com/2009/06/pivot-dont-jump-to-new-vision.html

