What will the World be like when people have an always on device with them at
all times?  In developing countries many people skipped traditional computers
altogether and joined the Internet on their mobile devices. How is this going
to play out?  Many businesses are beginning to get comfortable with the idea
that their data lives on servers located all over the world instead of a closet
down the hall. This trend will continue as more of today's young workers grow
into managers.

We need to look at the opportunities that these trends will represent. Mark
Zuckerberg has quipped that if he didn't build Facebook "somebody else would
have." That demonstrates that he had a clear understanding that there was a
ctrend line which predicted the success of Facebook. However, while plenty of
people predicted it, none of them actually built it.

One of the main differentators of wildly successful firms is not so much that
they predict the future, but that they define it. It may seem that Mark
Zuckerberg is being humble by commenting that somebody else would have built
Facebook if he didn't. But the fact of the matter remains that he did build it.
By his own admission everyone saw the trend, but Mark will be a billionaire
because he was the one who built the future that everyone else just predicted.
What do you get by predicting the future? You get to say "I was
right", along with millions of other people.

The goal of our firm is not necessarily to be "right" about our predictions,
but to build a firm that will make our predictions right. So what is the future
that we are going to build?

---

Aug 30th, 2010
According to IT research firm AMI's latest worldwide SMB Cloud Services
Practice, there are roughly 750,000 (12 percent) small businesses and 20,000
(24 percent) medium-size businesses already using software as a service (SAAS).
In addition, the survey found by looking at today's SAAS users, 78 percent of
small businesses and 31 percent of midsize businesses are leveraging a SAAS
plus on-premises mix (or hybrid model), while approximately only a third of
SAAS users are using an actual pure-SAAS product.

With an anticipated growth of up to $95 billion in global SMB cloud-related
spending by 2014, the firm said it isn't a surprise to see over half of U.S.
SMBs looking into SAAS as a potential solution. Approximately one in five U.S.
SMBs plan to use SAAS. However, AMI said it believes that SMBs are easing into
the concept of local plus cloud-based computing rather than leapfrogging into a
pure-play platform.

AMI's research concluded that certain applications would accelerate the need
for on demand/cloud among SMBs from SAAS plus on-premises vendors, including
e-mail and messaging applications, online storage and backup, and document
management and collaboration solutions. Approximately 134,000 non-SAAS U.S. SMB
users plan to adopt this application, according to the company's report, which
is good news for companies like Microsoft, which not only provides hosted
solutions like Exchange Online in its BPOS bundle, but also its ubiquitous
"Exchange On Premises."

http://www.eweek.com/c/a/Midmarket/SaaS-Increasingly-Popular-Among-Small-Businesses-Survey-Finds-498415/

---
